So let's create our first table.
We're gonna be creating
an ingredients table.
So you can see here, let's just run it and
then I'll we'll talk about it.
So you can just copy this or we can
even just type it out a little bit so
you can actually kinda get a feel
of what it feels like to type it,
CREATE TABLE, ingredients,
and it's gonna have
a couple of Things in here.
So we're gonna have an id which
is gonna be an INTEGER or
you can put INTEGER like this.
Or you can just put INT,
it's the same thing, or INT4.
I don't know why that would ever
be the one that you would choose,
but you can choose that.
INT it is a PRIMARY KEY
It's GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY.
Okay, then we're gonna have a title it's
gonna be a VARCHAR and we're gonna give it
a length of 255 it is UNIQUE NOT NULL,
okay?
Then we're gonna close our parentheses and
we're gonna hit a semicolon.
So first of all the way that we know that
we it successfully ran as you see here it
says CREATE TABLE it's going to repeat
back to what you just did to tell you this
worked right?
And now if I hit \ d,
you can see here I have a table and
a sequence which is what I'm expecting.
And if I say \ d on ingredients,
they will actually
describe the table to me which
is an integer, id ,and a title.
So all this works let's actually break it
down piece by piece of what we actually
just did.
So CREATE TABLE, we're telling SQL we
would like you to create a new table,
you can think of a table is
basically just a spreadsheet, right?
It's got rows and it's got columns.
The columns are all representative
here like id and title, right?
It's going to have an id for
every single one of these,
which is basically just
a unique identifier, right?
That's literally what it is.
And then we're gonna have a title which
is gonna be something like cucumber or
flour or chocolate or
whatever you wanna think of there, okay?
We're naming the table ingredients, and
then we're going to give it all of
the various different columns, right?
You can basically think of like, again,
setting all the column
names in your spreadsheet.
You have to tell it what
type of thing it is.
We're telling it the type of thing,
the data type here is INTEGER.
So this can only be a number if I try and
put a.
Apple into the id, it's going to say this
is not an integer, you can't do that.
So it actually is going to verify and
make sure that that's true.
We're gonna say this is the PRIMARY KEY,
every table that you're going
to create is going to have some
sort of primary key, right?
It's gonna say like, this is how I'm
going to index this table right?
So in this case, we're just saying
that the id is the PRIMARY KEY.
That's going to be very common.
It's not always true.
I'll show you when later
in the course it's not.
But for now, most of these
are gonna be ids kind of like this.
And then this
GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY.
If you've done previous versions of
In postgres this to call this serial,
S-E-R-I-A-L right, not the food.
I think you actually still can
do I think it still works but
it's good then if it's not been deprecated
it's at least been de emphasized.
This is actually more compliant to the SQL
spec that's why this is preferred now
even though serial is
a bit more simple right?
But here we're saying basically we want
you to always generate this key for
me and I want it to be incrementing,
right?
So the first thing I'm gonna
create is gonna be id one,
the second thing I created me id two.
If I delete that one and
I recreated the next symbol that created
will probably be id three, right?
So it's going to give everything
across your entire app,
a unique identifying key that
we don't have to keep track of,
that's what this ingredients_id_seq,
this thing right here.
That's what this actually
keeps track of right here,
it's the next thing in the sequence,
right?
The next number that's going
to be put into that id.
Okay, so
that is the first column the second column
we're saying that we're
creating a title right?
The VARCHAR is a type of string right?
So text right?
A free text and we're saying that
this has a max length of 255,
255 characters, right?
So if you have a ingredient
that's 256 characters,
it's going to truncate the end of it and
it's not going to store that last one.
We could put another one here called text.
So it would just be title
text UNIQUE NOT NULL, right?
Text is infinite length, right?
It's variable length but
titles in general,
like the title of your ingredients
not gonna be very long.
This allows postgres to kind of shrink
that storage size a little bit,
right, keep it a bit smaller.
And then the length is 255.
That's a common one to pick just because
that'll fit in some amount of bytes.
I can't remember exactly how many but.
It's pretty reasonable that
we can expect the titles or
ingredients to be under 255
characters in length and
that is our first table, it's an empty
table but nonetheless it is a table.
So we've created our spreadsheet and
we've put nothing into it but
we now have a place to put data.
You're gonna hear me a lot today use a
spreadsheet analogy it's because database,
well, basically
a spreadsheet is a database.
It's just a database that it's really
easy to edit with Google Sheets or
Excel, right?
And it's not actually theoretical.
You can actually use
Google Sheets as a real database.
You can write SQL queries that
work against spreadsheets.
So it's not theoretical, it's actually
a true thing that you can do.
I'm not gonna recommend that you run
your entire company on Google Sheets,
though I've heard of people doing it.
So we're gonna talk about inserts
more in the next chapter but
I want you to just copy and
paste this bad boy with me the INSERT INTO
ingredients here mostly so
that we can see what happened.
So I inserted into ingredients and
inserted a bell pepper so
now if I say SELECT * FROM
ingredients you can see there
I have one thing in my
database I have a bell pepper.
But notice here at nowhere
did I specify the id, right?
The Id just came with it.
This is what I was saying about this
PRIMARY KEY GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY.
That's where that comes from, right?
So it's going to just keep updating that
so you don't have to keep track of it.
The database keeps track that for you.
Again we'll talk about inserts in depth in
the next chapter I just wanted you to as
well select some the chapter after that.
But I wanted you to see this is how
stuff makes it into the table and
now we actually have
something in our table.
Yep, so
they used to call it SERIAL like that.
But now that generated all these identity
is more compliant to the generic SQLs one,
and they're trying to, like,
be good citizens of the SQL world.
So that's where GENERATED AS ALWAYS
comes from and so
you should see something
like that which you saw.
So I wanna show you how to drop a table so
let's do that just for
fun DROP TABLE ingredients.
And now if I say \ d you'll
notice that it did not find
any relations that's what drop table does.
By the same token you can say
DROP DATABASE recipeguru.
We could totally do that
I'm not well whatever let's
just do it it's fun except you
don't have to do this but.
And then now we can drop that's a DATABASE
recipeguru and l and behold it is gone.
So CREATE DATABASE recipeguru.
Cool, a note on semicolons,
a semicolon means the end of a statement.
Just like in JavaScript where you put
a semicolon at the end of a line to let
JavaScript know period, full stop,
end of sentence, it's the same thing.
In postgres, it is required here though.
There's no automatic comma
insertion in postgres.
It's going to keep going until you give
it a semicolon to let it know that I'm
finished with this.
So it does mean that you can put
multiple statements on one line, right?
Multiple queries, I'm gonna use those
terms more or less interchangeably,
statements and queries.
The one thing you should notice
here when I do this \c recipeguru,
I am not putting a semicolon there.
It's because PSQL doesn't care, right?
This is not SQL,
this is PSQL helper things, right?
So it doesn't care about semi colons but
your SQL does,
that's why sometimes you'll see it and
sometimes you won't.